From an authentication perspective, the application is now looking really good.
We're redirecting,
we're protecting, we're updating the UI,
we're protecting the back-end.
There's one thing I want to add though and that is our token,
it's going to expire after one hour,
right
because that is the duration we give it here on the back-end when we create it and I mentioned that this
is a good duration for security reasons.
This of course means that after one hour, our user is essentially logged out.
Right now, our user doesn't recognize this because our UI won't update.
We got a token
and it's just invalid
but on the front-end, we don't know that,
so we don't know that the token expired.
Well we can know it of course because we know that the token will expire in one hour
and actually, we can even pass that information along with the response.
We could add an expiresIn property here on the response we're sending back if we got a token and
simply pass that when does the token expire information. We know that it's going to be one hour from now
but then one hour we don't want to send a hard timestamp because the server of time could deviate from
the client time,
let's instead simply send back this duration and you could send back one hour and let the client parse
this like this,
you could send the duration in minutes, 60 or in seconds and I will send it back in seconds,
so 3600seconds,
let's actually send it as a number.
So this is the duration in seconds until it will expire,
now we can use that information on the front-end. When we are storing that token here in login, we can
actually also parse that when does it expire thing
and then kind of set a timer
and that is exactly what I want to do. In my subscribe method here in login,
I know did we get that expiresIn information and it only matters to me if I got a token,
so I will extract it here in that if check, there I will get the expiresIn duration which is equal
to
response expiresIn.
Now we need to update our generic type here
to well tell Angular that we will get this information, so we will have expiresIn which actually will
be a number because we're passing back a number. So we're getting back that duration here
and I'll for now simply console log that to the
well javascript console to see it.
Now if I go back to the Angular app and I do login with valid credentials, we see that duration here.
So that's working,
now we just need to set a timer and we can do that with set timeout of course. set timeout actually will
return a NodeJS
timer and it will also just, well take a function which should execute after that duration and
then the duration as a second argument,
so here I'll pass expiresIn duration. However set timeout works with milliseconds, not with seconds,
so we should multiply this with 1000 because we get it back in seconds as we know.
So after this duration, it will execute this function
and here I simply want to call this logout,
I want to call the logout function, clear the token and so on.
I also should store the timer in some variable so that I can clear the timer
if we do call logout because if we manually logout, we want to clear the timer so that if we then
login again thereafter, we don't have that old logout timer going on in the back.
So I will add a new private property here, TokenTimer which will be of type NodeJS timer, that's a
type you can just use like that,
it's made available by typescript.
So that's the timer we got, so this token timer is equal to the result returned here,
this token timer is equal to the result returned by set timeout and in logout,
we can then call clear timeout and pass this token timer as a value.
So this will now clear this timer whenever we do logout, be that manually or automatically.
Now to see that in action, I'll temporarily remove the multiplication with 1000,
so now it will interpret the 3600 as milliseconds and therefore, we should get
logged out after these 3.6seconds then actually.
So let's see if that works
and yes, that NodeJS type assignment doesn't seem to work here in this typescript version,
so let's use any then instead,
so this will just hold the timer then. So it's of type any, it's that timer reference which we need for clearing.
With that saved,
let's go back and let's now test this.
Let's login and now we should be logged out in a few seconds,
here we go,
it updated here and we can actually prove this and see this a bit better.
If we go to new post, now we should also be redirected
and we are.
So we are logged out here,
that's great,
this is working. Now
one thing which is not that great is that if I update my code,
so if I go back to multiplying this with 1000,
so to really turn it into one hour, that now with this added, i will actually still lose my authentication
status if I reload the page. If I do login here,
I'm logged in but if I reload the page because let's say I leave it and I come back, then I'm actually
logged out because I'm not persisting that login state.
The token is only stored in memory
and as mentioned before, this will get cleared whenever the Angular app restarts.
So that's something we'll tackle next.